[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: Here's
an intriguing one for you.
"Course in Miracles"
lecturer Gary Renard
has found a new take on
the concurrent lifetimes
between Jesus and Buddha,
both known by other names
historically.
It started when his
guides, Arten and Pursah,
came to him with
a story chronicled
in his new book
called "Lifetimes
When Jesus Knew Buddha."
First of all, I mean
this is really--
it's a fascinating story
because there's almost to me
a fantastical, magical, and even
quirky element of this story
to look at these two powerful
avatars, master beings,
having been together and
spent lifetimes together
and how they may have learned
alongside one another.
And so that's what
you're doing here.
But this was given to you
through Arten and Pursah,
two of your guides that appear
and disappear in odd ways.
So what I'd love to have you do
is tell us about these guides,
where you first came
in contact with them,
and what they've provided
you with throughout the time
together.
>>GARY R. RENARD: Well,
it's an interesting story
because I had been
on a spiritual path
for about 15 years or so.
But I still felt like
something was missing,
and I couldn't
really articulate it.
And then one day,
I was meditating.
I'd moved to Maine from
Massachusetts at that time.
This was about late 1992.
And all of a sudden, when I
came out of my meditation,
there were two people sitting
there on my living room couch.
>>REGINA: [CHUCKLES]
>>RENARD: And I should have
probably been a little bit
terrified, but I wasn't because
they just looked so peaceful.
They looked so
happy and peaceful.
>>REGINA: What did
they look like?
Give us an idea, so we can--
for those of us who are visual.
>>RENARD: Well, the
woman looked like
this beautiful, exquisite
kind of from India
looking woman and some guy.
I didn't care much about
him, but she was beautiful.
And he looked really good.
I mean, they looked unusually
healthy and beautiful.
And I think that the reason
that they appeared that way
was just to comfort me because
they were going to teach me
a lot of things,
and they were really
the Holy Spirit manifesting
as Arten and Pursah.
And I just was
overwhelmed at first,
but then I started
to relax and listen
to what they were saying.
And what they were
saying was something
that was quite different
than what I had heard
before on my spiritual path.
So what they were
presenting was something
that I would describe
as pure non duality.
They were saying
that what you believe
is not true, that
none of this is true,
that the whole thing is untrue.
And I know the word hoax
is popular nowadays,
but that word is being used to
describe part of the illusion.
And what they are
saying is no, you
don't understand-- the
whole thing is a hoax.
None of this is true, and
the only reality is God.
And they were leading
me toward this thing
called "A Course in Miracles."
But they also were telling
me, look, this is the truth,
that great masters
like Jesus and Buddha
eventually discovered.
They were saying that
there is only one reality,
and that reality is a constant,
and it doesn't change.
This is a world of
shift in change,
but reality does not
shift and change.
It's always the same.
And I had never
heard that before.
So it was like, OK,
this is interesting.
So tell me more.
And what they did was they
went on for about nine years
and engaged me in 17
different conversations
that make up my first book.
But all through my
first three books,
they would always talk
about Jesus and Buddha
and what they were like.
And after the third
book, I thought, well,
maybe that's it--
maybe it's over.
And every now and then,
after I talked to them,
I would think, wow, I
should have asked them this,
or I should have
asked them that.
It's like I forgot
to ask them this.
And after the third
book, I thought
it was over because I
thought it was a trilogy.
And then I asked them, well,
how did Jesus get to be Jesus?
How did Buddha get to be Buddha?
What were they like
in those incarnations
just before they became
Jesus and Buddha?
And the answer to that
question turned out
to be more than I bargained for.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>RENARD: It turned out
to be whole other books.
[CHUCKLING]
>>REGINA: Right, and
that's where we are now.
OK, let's go back for a moment
when they're telling you that
all of this-- everything
we know in our waking times
as reality--
is a hoax or an illusion.
Was it Einstein?
Someone can correct me.
Someone out there will know.
It could be nine stone that
said reality is an illusion,
albeit a very persistent one.
So we're living in this
persistent illusion
of recognizable things
created by what?
The way they
explained it to you--
how did we create this
matrix that we all experience
in a somewhat similar way?
>>RENARD: Einstein described
this as a delusion also.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>RENARD: And I guess he
was a pretty smart guy.
But it's like the whole
thing is coming from us,
and this is something
that has been persistent
in the teachings
of Arten and Pursah
and also what they relate
about the teachings of Jesus
and Buddha.
The world is not
being done to us.
It's being done by us.
When you realize that,
then all of a sudden,
it shifts from being a victim,
where it's being done to you,
to not being a victim because
it's being done by you.
It really seems subtle at first.
>>REGINA: No, I'm
on board with you
completely that we're
cocreators in this.
And if you want to throw
Einstein into the mix
and looking at
everything as energy,
as not having any material
anyway, what is it
besides an expression of our
desire well thought and form?
>>RENARD: Well, my teachers
like to quote Einstein.
He said what we're
experiencing here
is an optical delusion
of consciousness.
So I think he understood that.
>>REGINA: Yeah, he did.
So that's where
they're coming from.
We're creating this illusion
that looks like our reality.
So now, going back
to your big question,
is who were Jesus and Buddha
before these entities became
known as Jesus and Buddha?
>>RENARD: Well,
this is something
that leads to mind
discipline because what
they learned was something that
was completely uncompromising.
What they learned was that
there is only one reality,
and that reality is a constant.
It's not something
that shifts or changes.
>>REGINA: And how do they
describe to you that reality?
>>RENARD: That reality
cannot be described,
but it can be experienced.
And that's what they achieved.
They achieved their
perfect oneness
with God or heaven or
whatever you want to call it.
They achieved their
perfect oneness
with reality, which
has nothing to do
with this universe, nothing
to do with this place of time
and space, nothing
to do with anything
that shifts or changes.
And this has been touched upon
in other religions before.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>RENARD: But I think that
they achieved the experience
of that constancy.
So if you could move that
forward to today's teachings
of Jesus, which I would describe
as being the same in A Course
in Miracles," what it would
say is that whatever is true is
eternal and cannot
change or be changed,
which pretty much lets out
anything in this world of time
and space.
>>REGINA: OK, so
there's our platform.
You said in the
book that they had
about 40 lifetimes together.
So there was a process of
refinement that was going on.
And another thing that
was explained to you
was that the entity
known as Jesus
was not the ultimate leader but
actually the ultimate follower
because he only followed
the dictate of the higher
spirit-- his own
higher guidance,
his higher spirit, higher self,
all the different names we
have for it.
>>RENARD: That's a great point.
You know, people think of
Jesus as being, oh, wow,
this great messiah,
this great leader.
He wasn't like that at all.
What he was was
someone as he also
describes in "A Course in
Miracles," but before that.
He said, of myself,
I can do nothing.
He said he listened
to one voice.
He listened to the Holy Spirit,
which is what I'm trying to do.
I'm trying to just
listen to one voice.
If I ever listen to my voice--
I can look back on
my life, and when
I was listening to my voice,
it didn't turn out very well.
>>REGINA: I hear you.
>>RENARD: But when I
listened to the Holy Spirit,
things have actually
gone pretty good for me.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I
agree with that.
>>RENARD: So it's like, of
myself, I can do nothing.
I just want to
listen to one voice.
And Jesus says in "A
Course in Miracles"--
because he is the voice
of "A Course in Miracles"
for those who are listening
who may not know that--
it's like he's saying eventually
I just listen to one voice.
So that makes him a follower.
It doesn't make him a leader.
It makes him a follower.
And he's saying that
you can be like him.
If you do the same
thing, if you do
what I did, if you
actually listen
to the Holy Spirit the way that
I did, then you can be like me.
And at first I heard
that-- because I had
read the Bible a little bit.
Not that I'm a
religious person--
I'm not-- but I'd read
the Bible a little bit.
When I started reading
"A Course in Miracles,"
it was like, oh, this guy
is saying that he's Jesus.
And I was thinking
this better be
good because it's not something
that everybody should say.
But when I started reading it,
it started to make sense to me.
And it was like,
OK, so now, he is
saying that instead of dragging
God down to our level, maybe
we should try to go up to
a higher level than human.
Because if you read
the Bible, that God
that we're given in
the Bible is very
human with all the
same human flaws
and getting even with people.
>>REGINA: Yeah, certainly
in the Old Testament.
>>RENARD: Yeah, and even
in the New Testament,
how do you offer your
son as a blood sacrifice?
>>REGINA: No, there too.
We're on the same page.
>>RENARD: Yeah, and it's
like, wow, that's very human.
And what Jesus and
Buddha discovered
was that God is not human.
God does not think the way
that human beings think.
He thinks like God,
which is perfection.
And even the Bible
stumbles on the truth.
And "A Course in Miracles"
would say the exact same quote
that God is perfect love.
But we have to understand
the implications of that.
If God is perfect love, then
all that it would know how to do
would be to love.
If it was perfect, could it
have any imperfect thoughts?
No.
If it did, it
wouldn't be perfect.
Now, what that does is
it actually gives us
a perfect home to go home to,
which astounded me at first.
It was like, oh, wait
a minute because I
had been actually angry at God.
My parents had died
painful deaths.
I was looking at
the world, and I
was thinking what kind of a God
could make this kind of a world
where people suffer and die?
What kind of a God is this?
And then it was like, eureka--
all of a sudden,
yes, this gives us
a perfect tone to go home to.
>>REGINA: Well said.
Now, let's get to
what Pursah said
because she said, in
terms of Jesus and Buddha,
that they were going to
acknowledge in the beginning
that there was no physical
evidence that they existed.
But they did exist,
and she explained it
slightly differently.
So can you explain that to us?
Because there are
many, many books
written about whether Jesus
was a true historical figure,
metaphorical figure that
comes so often to incarnate
as different entities
or to even guide
behind certain entities that
had elevated status historically
on a spiritual level.
So how did they
explain this entity?
>>RENARD: Well, basically the
entities did actually exist.
>>REGINA: Just
that we don't have
the physical evidence for it?
>>RENARD: Right.
And they set the record straight
because there are stories
about Jesus that aren't true--
like him bursting his
way into the temple
and throwing tables
over and being
kind of like an angry person.
He was not like that ever.
So he and Mary
Magdalene were married.
They loved each other.
They had a perfectly
wonderful, loving relationship.
Something that my books say
that other people don't say
is that they didn't
have any children,
and others say that they did.
And some people have actually
gotten angry at me for saying
that they didn't.
But the truth is the
last thing that they
would have wanted to perpetuate
was a bloodline where people
would be looking for
ancestors of theirs
and making a big deal out of it
because they were not bodies,
and they knew that
they were not bodies.
Let me give you, if
I may, the temptation
definition from "A
Course in Miracles."
It says temptation has one
lesson it would teach in all
its forms, wherever it occurs.
It would persuade
the holy son of God
he is a body, born
in what must die,
unable to escape its
frailty, and bound
by what it orders him to feel.
That is temptation, not just
in "A Course in Miracles,"
but Jesus and Buddha discovered
that as they went along,
the ego--
which I will call this
thing called the ego, which
we think is real, which is us--
they discovered that
they were not bodies
just like the Course says.
I am not a body.
I am free for I am
still as God created me.
So it's like, wow,
what if I'm not a body?
What if there is
only one reality?
And what if it has
nothing to do with what
we are experiencing here?
What if what we are
experiencing here is false
and there is a reality that
is just beyond the veil?
Like, I'm looking at you, right?
>>REGINA: Yeah, I hear you.
>>RENARD: And I see
a body, and I'm not
pretending that I'm not
going to see a body when
I discover the truth.
But I know the truth about you.
There is something that
is just beyond the veil.
And what is just beyond the veil
is this perfect creation of God
that is a constancy that
can never be changed.
And if I see you that way--
there is this
wonderful quotation
at the end of the text of
"A Course in Miracles."
It says, as you see him,
you will see yourself.
>>REGINA: It makes
perfect sense,
and it would be a much more
gracious way for all of us
to go through life, if
we could manage that
through this very persistent
illusion of personality,
subconscious experience, pain,
trauma, and everything else
that's loaded into the
subconscious carried forward.
>>RENARD: Yeah, so what I want
to emphasize is that the way
that Jesus and Mary got in touch
with their own divinity was
by seeing it everywhere--
without compromise.
Now, that's not easy.
>>REGINA: No, it's not because
of things I just mentioned,
yeah.
>>RENARD: Yeah, and it has to
apply to everybody, period.
It's like you can't not
see that in one person.
>>REGINA: Yes,
but they practiced
and they learned it while
in physical incarnations.
And that is what your
book is referring
to is some of the ways in
which they were trained,
training themselves forward
into this unity consciousness.
And let's get into some
of the particulars.
Let's get into a time when they
were amidst those in the Shinto
tradition, as Jesus was Saka
and Buddhist was Hiroji,
and they had a very deep
friendship and faith and also
mystical experiences.
So let's talk about what
they learned at that time
in Shintoism.
>>RENARD: Well, sure.
And the book is
called "The Lifetimes
When Jesus and Buddha
Knew Each Other,"
and even though they
knew each other in about
40 different lifetimes,
there's about six
that are really highlighted--
>>REGINA: Yeah, and
that's what we focus on.
>>RENARD: --in the book.
It's like they were friends.
They were Shintos who
were very similar,
I would say, to the
New Age people of today
because they were exploring
different ways of looking
at things.
And so they were very advanced.
They actually learned
to communicate
with animals in that lifetime.
>>REGINA: Telepathically, yeah.
>>RENARD: Yeah.
And by the way, if you want
to communicate with animals,
I've learned from them, you
want to do it with pictures
not words because animals
don't think in terms of words.
They think in terms of pictures.
And I learned this from my
cat because I experimented.
And when I used to say words
to her, it meant nothing.
But when I sent mental
pictures to her,
I was actually communicating.
And you can do
that with animals.
And they were very advanced
for Shintoism at that time.
And it was like--
they also had personal
forgiveness lessons
because they fell in
love with the same woman.
Now, that woman, much later in
the linear scheme of things,
turned out to be Mary Magdalene.
>>REGINA: Her name was
Megumi in this story.
>>RENARD: That's right.
>>REGINA: There was jealousy.
There were a lot of
human traits that
were happening between
these two over this woman.
Let's talk about
how that story went.
>>RENARD: Well, they both
wanted her very much.
And because of the
time and place,
the emperor said who
is going to marry who,
and neither one of them
got to be with her.
So it ended up being, at
first, a forgiveness lesson
and jealousy, and then
eventually a forgiveness
lesson in unrequited love.
So there were a couple of
huge forgiveness lessons.
But you know what?
They still ended
up being friends.
And I think that
was very interesting
because they were spiritually
advanced enough to realize that
even though things
didn't work out the way
that they wanted
them to work out,
that they could use that as some
kind of spiritual advancement.
>>REGINA: By really
embracing the lesson that
was being shown them.
>>RENARD: Yeah, that is so true.
So let's say that we
have two identities.
You have your ego, which is
the false identity, which
is that part of
the mind that wants
to make this whole thing real
and get you to react to it.
Then you have the real you,
which is kind of like--
we'll call it spirit,
the Holy Spirit,
which is telling you that
what you're seeing is not true
and that there is a reality
that is just beyond the veil.
It reminds me of
something that--
you can see this in the gospel
of Thomas, 2,000 years ago.
The disciples went up
to Jesus and we said,
when will the kingdom come?
And he said, well, it will
not come by watching for it.
Will not be said behold
here or behold there.
Rather, the kingdom
of the father
is spread out upon the Earth
and people do not see it.
Well, the reason that
they don't see it
is because it's out
of their awareness.
That's why "A
Course in Miracles,"
in its brilliant
introduction, says
that it's about removing
the blocks to the awareness
of love's presence.
And let's remember,
"A Course in Miracles"
is a very big teaching.
It's not the piddly
small teaching
that most of its
teacher present it as.
It's a very big teaching.
And it's saying that if
you remove those blocks
to the awareness of
love's presence--
love in the Course means God--
you can experience God.
And I have been fortunate enough
to have that experience, where
you undo those blocks of that
awareness, which means undoing
the ego, undoing the faults
you, which is why the Course is
about mind training because
you have to have that knowledge
to undo the ego through a
certain kind of forgiveness
that doesn't make it real.
And when you do that, it'll
lead you to an experience.
So the ironic thing, I think,
about "A Course in Miracles"
is that you get a half
a million words that
is meant to lead you
to an experience that
is beyond all words.
>>REGINA: Yes, and
one truth only,
which, if it could
be articulated,
would happen in a sentence.
>>RENARD: So the truth
cannot be suppressed.
I can't tell you the truth, but
you can experience the truth.
And when you express
it, it's beyond anything
that can be described
because it's perfect.
It's absolutely non
dualistic because there
are no this and that.
There's no scarcity
and abundance.
There is no life and death.
There is only life.
There is only abundance.
There is only that one thing
instead of that duality.
And it is also a very
sexual experience,
which people don't always like
it when I talk about that.
But when you have that
kind of experience
with your perfect oneness with
God, which the Course describes
your experience with God as
being extremely personal,
it's like a constant orgasm.
It's like it never stops.
It's just there.
And when I first heard that
from my very attractive teacher,
Pursah, I said, hey, give
me more of that, you know.
>>REGINA: [CHUCKLES] You were
definitely in the 3D plane
when you said that.
So OK, now, let's continue
with their learning
as they're starting to
embrace these concepts,
this lack of duality,
moving beyond duality.
They came into
contact with Lao Tzu.
And I found that really
an interesting period.
And Jesus was a female,
Shao Li; Buddha was Wosan.
And they both had
psychic abilities.
And they had to move
away from their family
in order to follow this path.
Let's talk about their
lives with Lao Tzu.
>>RENARD: Well, one
thing about Lao Tzu
is that Buddha actually
learned a lot from Lao Tzu.
And sometimes people actually
confuse the sayings of the two
because people say, oh, Lao Tzu
said this, or Buddha said that.
And sometimes they'll
say Buddha said that,
when it was actually Lao Tzu.
And they were very similar.
And it's like, yeah.
I think the interesting
thing about Jesus and Buddha
lifetime at that
time was that they
had the typical male-female
relationship, which
I am experiencing right
now with my wife Cindy.
And it's like, yes,
you have certain things
that will come up.
I call them love bargains.
It's like maybe you want that
person to do something for you
sexually, and you expect it.
And then when it doesn't
happen, then all of a sudden
it's a problem.
It's like watch out because if
that person isn't performing
the way that you want
them to and you've
come to expect them to, that is
a big forgiveness opportunity.
And in that lifetime, they
had that kind of thing.
So you could see that
Jesus and Buddha,
through the six lifetimes that
are portrayed in the book, kind
of like ran the gamut of
the kinds of forgiveness
opportunities that we have.
>>REGINA: Because this one
did have to do with desire,
and it sounds as though
it was Shao Li who asks,
how can I have no desire?
And they did ultimately have
children together, the two.
>>RENARD: Right.
>>REGINA: And this has
really, for me, always been--
there are two words that I
react to, and one of them
is forgiveness, and
one of them is desire.
And these are heavily laced
through these stories.
Just on a personal
level looking at all
of life, all of creation,
nothing happens without desire.
Without desire, nothing exists.
So the whole notion
in what is considered
to be Buddhist tradition
of releasing desire
because desires is at the base
of all suffering, that's never
resonated with me.
Now, I do understand
it on a material level.
If you keep trying to go
after something that's
not serving you
and not showing up,
you're going to be disappointed.
But if you're listening
to that higher voice
and you're following that, then
desire is a beautiful thing.
It's what allows
that to manifest.
What's your take on the desire?
>>RENARD: [CHUCKLES] Do you
have any difficult questions?
>>REGINA: To me,
it's kind of simple.
If you follow a
higher directive,
desire is what propels
it into reality.
If you're following
lower 3D, lower desires,
it can cause a lot of
suffering and problems.
So I can see what
they're talking about.
>>RENARD: So there's an
interesting thing there.
First of all, you have to
throw the whole thing out.
Nothing here is worth desiring
because none of it's true.
>>REGINA: Yet, if you're
following that higher directive
from the higher source, as
Jesus and the other avatars
and great beings have
done, that desire
does manifest in something.
>>RENARD: But there is kind
of an interesting twist.
>>REGINA: OK, what's that?
>>RENARD: The twist
is it doesn't matter.
It really doesn't matter.
None of it's true.
But at the same time, while
you appear to be here,
you're probably going
to do something,
and you're probably going
to want to do something.
>>REGINA: Well, there is
a reason for coming here,
otherwise don't
bother incarnating.
>>RENARD: Well, that's
a different subject.
>>REGINA: [CHUCKLES]
>>RENARD: But-- and
nobody in their right mind
would come here.
But that's a different subject.
But the thing is it's like
while you appear to be here,
it's possible to be guided--
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>RENARD: --by the Holy
Spirit as to what you should
do while you appear to be here.
And the more that you undo
the ego through a certain kind
of forgiveness that doesn't
make it real, the more
that you allow the Holy
Spirit to enter your mind
and give you these ideas.
There was a time in my life
when I didn't know what anything
was for, and now I
know what everything
is for because I
have the Holy Spirit
to tell me what
it's for, and I can
be inspired with these ideas
that I never would have had--
like you should go here;
you should do this--
and these are very
practical ideas.
That's why I say that
this kind of spirituality
can be very practical because
not only are you working
your way home to God,
but at the same time,
you can be guided by the
Holy Spirit as to how
you can be the most
helpful to other people
and help them get
their way home to God.
>>REGINA: I totally
agree with you on that.
So here we are.
So they have worked
through the desire.
Now, as male and female,
they've come together.
They've had four
children together.
But what was the big
takeaway in that one
because I have an
interesting question that's
going to follow up here,
especially what you just said
about who would incarnate here?
So what was the big takeaway
as the two devotees of Lao Tzu?
>>RENARD: I think
the big takeaway was
their major introduction to
a certain kind of forgiveness
that most of the
world is not aware of.
Because even when you
use the word forgiveness,
people still make it real.
It's like I'm forgiving you
because you really did it.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I
don't like that word,
>>RENARD: And what they did was
they started to discover that
if this is my projection--
and that was really
their introduction
to the whole idea
of projection--
if it's being done
by me, then why
am I forgiving people
because they really
did it, when I should
be forgiving people
because they haven't
really done anything
because I'm the one who made
it up in the first place?
>>REGINA: This gets
highly esoteric--
and practical.
OK, one thing-- by the
way, this is a little aside
that I learned recently
doing some research
for different interview.
It had to do with Lao Tzu, and
they were saying his mother,
Lao, became--
it was another divine birth,
another immaculate conception
in that the story was that
she saw a falling comet,
and then she became
imbued and impregnated
and that's what he came from.
So anyway, that's just an aside.
So this is the
part that follows.
You just said no one
would choose to come here,
and it's all an illusion.
And this says lifetime
fascinations are
scripted all the way through.
So let's talk about
that for a moment.
>>RENARD: Well, this is
the script that has already
been written, and you and me are
reviewing mentally that which
has already gone by.
So this whole thing
has already been done.
We are not here.
We are not in bodies, which
is the main teaching of Jesus
and Buddha.
I'm not a body.
I'm free.
For I am still as
God created me.
And what this is--
it's just nothing.
And the question is what
are you going to do with it?
What are you going
to do with that which
you are mentally reviewing?
It's kind of like you're
in a movie theater,
and the movie has
already even filmed.
You're not going to
change the movie.
It's already been filmed.
It's already there.
What you can change is your
interpretation of the movie.
So it's like you've got the Holy
Spirit sitting on this side,
and you've got the ego
sitting on this side.
And the ego is saying this is
real, and you can't forgive it.
They don't deserve this--
those bastards don't deserve it.
And the Holy Spirit
is saying well,
you know, it's just a
movie, and you made it,
and you can forgive it
because it's nothing.
And which interpretation
are you going to listen to?
So I choose to listen
to Holy Spirit.
And you know what?
>>REGINA: But let me ask a
followup question on that.
Who is it that has already
scripted the script?
Who's created the script?
>>RENARD: Well, who
created the script was
what I would call the ego,
which is the idea of separation
really, the false belief that
you could separate yourself
from your creator.
Now, that couldn't
happen in reality,
but it did happen in a
dream, which is why--
I think the Course
does a brilliant job
of saying that this is
not just an illusion.
This is a dream that
you can awaken from.
And when Buddha said
I am awake, that's
what he was talking about.
Nowadays, people, they
think when Buddha said,
oh, I'm awake,
they think that he
meant that he was amazingly
alert and ready to manifest
like hell or
something like that.
But that's not what he meant.
What he meant was
that he had awakened
from the entire dream
of time and space
and realized that he
was not the dream,
that he was not in the dream,
that he was the dreamer who
was projecting this whole thing,
that the whole universe of time
and space was coming from him.
And when he realized that,
that is enlightenment
because enlightenment
is awakening.
>>REGINA: Right.
So this thing you
just brought up,
this is one of the most
common New Age beliefs,
that God created heaven and hell
and this dual-natured universe,
or universes, so that he
could experience himself
through this
contrast which never
made any sense to me at all.
That just has never resonated.
>>RENARD: Yeah.
Well, I don't want to
rain on anybody's parade.
But to think that God made
this is an insult to God.
>>REGINA: Well that's
one way to put it.
I just do not resonate at all.
I have never been able to feel
any truth in that statement.
>>RENARD: So let's say that
God really is perfect love
and that there was just a
thought because we are not
in prison.
Heaven is not a prison,
so there was just
a thought for a
second that turned out
to be a stupid thought.
What could I be different?
What could I do different?
What could I say that
was different than heaven
and was so stupid it
was over in an instant?
And "A Course in Miracles"
says that it only
lasted for an instant.
And then say it's saying it
didn't last at all because it
was just a dream, and dreams
may appear to be true,
but they're not really true.
So it was over instantly.
And God is still perfect,
and he would not do this.
The way "A Course
in Miracles" puts
it is that no
father could subject
his children to this as the
cost of salvation and be loving.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I
would agree with that.
>>RENARD: So if God is
really perfect love--
and I appreciate the fact
that you agree with that,
but there are a lot of
people who are upset.
>>REGINA: Maybe people
even hearing this
now will not be
comfortable with that,
but I'm simply being truthful.
I have never resonated with
that as a higher truth.
And the thing about
freeing oneself
from really the solid aspect of
all of the different elements
of our emotions and
everything we're attached to
is that it actually
can become, as it
did for Buckminster Fuller
after all the suffering,
a grand experiment.
What's to lose?
>>RENARD: I remember Bucky, yes.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
what's to lose if you
do see life as a
genuine experiment,
always trying to move higher
and higher in terms of the more
refined virtues in life.
That's the only worthwhile
quest that I can think of,
just like you said earlier
with one of these incarnations,
where they had to overcome
a certain kind of jealousy,
or desire.
In the next one we're
going into, hey, it
looks like we have drinking,
gambling, and flirting even.
OK, this was the
Jesus character.
So now we're talking 2500 BC.
This is a Hindu life.
Harish is Jesus.
Padmaj is Buddha.
And they're cousins
and devout Hindus.
And Harish had desires, like
drinking, gambling, flirting.
OK, there's your duality.
Let's try it on for
size as an experiment.
What did they learn
out of this one?
He ended up dragging
Buddha into trouble.
>>RENARD: Boy, he
reminds me of me.
>>REGINA: [CHUCKLES]
>>RENARD: Yeah,
well, they really
ran the gamut in that
life because they
experience all the kinds of
temptations that we all do.
And I think at the
end of that lifetime,
they came to a conclusion
which could also
be quoted from "A
Course in Miracles,"
if there is a definition of
temptation in the Course,
it says temptation has one
lesson it would teach in all
its forms wherever it occurs.
It would persuade the holy
son of God he is a body.
>>REGINA: Right.
Yeah, you said that earlier.
Exactly.
So they're having to contend
with this notion of trying
to be persuaded that
this is their reality.
>>RENARD: So they are being
tempted to think that they are
bodies--
>>REGINA: This is it, yeah.
>>RENARD: --and that
that is their reality,
and they are experiencing it.
And it really was very hard
for them to get over that.
But what really
turned them around
was when they got into an
argument, and one of them
got stabbed, and the
other one realized--
what am I doing?
What am I doing here?
What I am doing and thinking
is leading to destruction
instead of what it should
be leading to, which
is life and peace and the kinds
of things that I really want.
And there was a major
lesson for them.
>>REGINA: And then
as I understand it,
they each did end
up as true mystics
in that lifetime, which
kind of always ended up
where they were finding
the higher aspect of self
anyway and just playing
with all these notions
in these various incarnations,
trying it on for size, applying
some of their higher thinking.
>>RENARD: Absolutely, and
that's a microcosm for our lives
because sometimes we can start
off not being the best people.
I certainly wasn't
the best person
if you look at my life history.
But as you go
along, sometimes you
can actually grow and change
and become a totally different
person than you were
when you were younger.
And that's what happened
with them in that lifetime.
>>REGINA: And then
they went on--
Jesus, Mary Magdalene-- and
you say in that lifetime that
Pursah told you that they
did travel to India together
because, again,
everyone's speculation--
I interviewed someone who did
a documentary on Jesus's time
in India.
And so what was their
story about what
they did once they
were together,
where their travels took them?
They were young.
>>RENARD: Well, yeah.
They first met as children.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>RENARD: And they were fond
of each other, you know.
And when they got a little bit
older, in their teen years,
they found that they were
in love with each other.
And they had a
normal relationship.
They had a sexual relationship.
But as time went
on, they both knew
that the body was
not their reality
and that their reality was
this perfect oneness with God.
By that point in time,
they realized the truth,
and they realized--
Buddhists would also say
the truth is a constant.
The truth is not
something that changes.
Jesus used a metaphor about
building a house upon the rock
instead of the sand.
This world that we
appear to be living in
is very much the sand.
I mean, I live in LA.
Who knows what earthquake
could come along any minute.
That's building your house
upon the sand literally.
And at the same time, the
rock is symbolic of something
that doesn't shift or change.
It's something that you
can actually depend upon,
and that's what
they came to learn.
And they said, OK, it's
like this is something
that even though we
love each other, even
though we have this
wonderful relationship,
we know the truth.
So what they would do is
every now and then when
they were in this
moment of passion,
they would say, OK, by the
way, I know who you really are,
and they would
overlook the body.
And that's an essential
part of forgiveness.
You overlook the body
instead of making it real.
And you look to the
constancy that shines just
beyond the body, something that
is real and will never change.
And if you think of
that person that way,
according to the
chorus, you can't help
but think of yourself
that way because that's
the way that the mind works.
>>REGINA: Right, right, right.
OK, so being able to
see beyond, to have
a kind of unique
passion where they
were going more or
less soul to soul,
and so they had
learned these lessons.
They also had a time when they
were two males, in Greece,
in Athens, more in a
philosophical school.
And so all of this,
I mean, to me,
what I found
interesting about it
is the different ways in which
we choose to learn our lessons
or what appeared to be
lessons of this world--
again, always finding your
way back to that one place.
And so, with that said, what
was the big overarching message
to you in having been
given this information
and having written this book?
>>RENARD: Well,
first of all, when
it comes to the
time of Plato, this
is a time when Jesus
and Buddha actually
discovered that they
were ahead of the curve,
that they were actually
ahead of Plato.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>RENARD: And they were
saying he's brilliant and he
understands the one--
and Platonists actually
articulated the one even more--
but it's like, yeah,
this guy is great,
but there is
something that we are
suspecting that is the truth.
And the truth is
not just the one.
The truth is perfect oneness.
Because Plato was still kind
of like hinting at duality,
and Jesus and Buddha were
thinking-- at that time,
they were starting
to get the idea is
that you can't compromise.
And this is what I love about
my teachers Arten and Pursah.
They never compromise on the
fact that only God is real,
and nothing else is real.
Nothing else is true.
And if you make something else
true, and if you believe in it,
that is what will affect you.
So the way that the Course
puts it about forgiveness,
it denies the ability
of anything not of God
to affect you.
If you believe in this
world, it will affect you,
and it will hurt you.
But Jesus got to the
point, and Buddha
got to the point, where this
world could not hurt them,
and it could not affect them.
Because of the power of the
mind and the power of belief,
you can get to the point where
your ego is completely undone.
And Jesus, in "A Course in
Miracles," makes it very clear
that at the end of his life,
it was impossible for him
to feel any physical
pain because he did not
have any guilt in his
mind, because his mind had
been completely healed
by the Holy Spirit.
And that is the destiny that
is held out to you and to me
and to everybody.
That is what is going to
be the eventual stopping
point for every one of us.
We are going to get to
the point where we will
be like Jesus and like Buddha.
And when I first heard that in
the Course, it was like, oh,
really?
I'm going to be like Jesus?
Well, he promises it.
>>REGINA: Yes, and
in the ancient texts,
they said as much.
>>RENARD: Yes.
>>REGINA: We just have to
develop a little humility
to know that our own
conscious thoughts might not
be the be all and end all.
>>RENARD: One of my favorite
quotes from the Courses
is, "Be humble before
God but be great in him."
>>REGINA: That was pretty much
a perfect ending there, Gary,
so I want to thank you so
much for taking the time
and to be with us and share some
of this very beautiful wisdom
with us.
I appreciate that.
You can find "The Lifetimes
When Jesus knew Buddha"
in all major booksellers.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[MUSIC PLAYING]